hello is this thing is this thing on
whoa whoa that's louder than I
expected I have seen so many speeches
begin this way whether it's at a work
event or a wedding and it comes across
as amateur
unprofessional it's
unnecessary in this video I am going to
give you a few tips so that you're
comfortable using a microphone even if
you're a brand new speaker who is not
used to giving presentations these tips
will help you in that upcoming
presentation my first tip is to test the
microphone beforehand at many work style
events such as conferences there will be
an opportunity to do a mic test before
you deliver a presentation and if this
is offered to you definitely take that
event organizer up on the offer because
this is a great thing to be able to hear
what your voice is going to sound like
Amplified by the microphone you'll get
used to it and you won't be caught off
guard when you actually go to give your
presentation and when you're speaking
into that microphone practice speaking
with a regular volume but also increase
and decrease your volume a couple of
times so that you again get used to what
the sound of your voice will be like
because if we're not used to our voice
being Amplified it can sound a little
bit different it might catch us off
guard so by getting used to that
beforehand it's going to be very helpful
and I've talked about this in other
videos but the other benefit of doing a
mic test is you get familiar with that
stage setup and what it feels like
standing there and looking out into the
crowd because when you go to deliver a
presentation there may be 50 100 200 500
a th000 people in attendance and that's
a lot of eyes staring at you and so
that's where the nerves come in from
time to time but if you've already stood
on that stage you've practiced with the
microphone you're going to be much more
confident when you actually begin your
speech my next tip when using a
microphone is to maintain the correct
distance from the microphone ideally you
want to be about 1 to 2 in away if
you're holding that handheld mic and you
want to hold it directly underneath you
so the problem sometimes is when we're
talking right into the microphone right
in front of it that can be a little bit
loud and the P's and the B's that we say
are really going to pop and have an
aggressive sound whereas if the
microphone is just under our mouths or
sometimes just to the side that is going
to be a more enjoyable sound for the
audience and what is also common is to
have a lapel mic or another microphone
that sometimes wraps around the ear and
goes directly in front of the mouth in
that case with the earpiece you're just
going to speak as if you would normally
and same thing with the lapel mic you'll
often clip it right onto your suit
jacket or onto your dress shirt ladies
you will this is another thing to be
mindful of as your outfit choice for the
event if you're going to be giving a
speech ensuring that there is something
that that lapel mic can easily clip onto
and if it is off to one side be mindful
of that if you're constantly interning
your face and talking to this side of
the room but the microphone's over here
it's going to be a little bit harder to
hear so if that's the case turn your
full body so that you still stay in
front of the microphone rather than your
head turning away from it a bonus tip
here is if you have long hair which I
clearly don't but maybe ladies or men
with longer hair if that hair is getting
near the microphone it will create a
staticky unpleasant sound and so if
that's the case you may want to have
your hair tied back or off to the side
so that it's not interfering with the
microphone my third tip for using a
microphone like a pro is to speak to the
back of the room ensuring that your base
volume is loud enough for the entire
room to hear because sometimes when
people get microphones their default is
to speak very quietly again maybe
they're not familiar with their voice
being Amplified but you still want to
keep that volume and still speak as
though you're speaking to the back of
the room because having that strong
median volume is going to ensure that
the entire audience can hear your whole
speech really effectively you can still
deviate from that from time to time
getting loud or getting quiet for effect
and I talk about that in another one of
my videos which is all about vocal
variety but that base volume should be
loud enough for the entire room to hear
my final tip what if something goes
wrong what if the microphone turns off
Don't Panic the more you draw attention
to a technical issue the more the
audience will be worried or concerned or
stressed for you don't panic if your mic
does go out especially if there's an AV
team or somebody who is helping with the
sound they are probably more panicked
than you are and they are working on a
solution if that's the
case adapt speak louder talk really loud
so the entire room can hear you if you
are the only one there and you know that
there's a solution maybe the batteries
have gone out you you can perhaps
improvise tell the audience you're going
to be 2 minutes run to the back fix that
if it's really going to be a big issue
but I will say stay calm think about
ways that you can still deliver your
content it's like any technical issue
you could run into these things happen
from time to time but the less you draw
attention to it and the more that you
keep that confidence and don't allow it
to be a problem and adapt the smoother
it's going to go and your audience is
going to be very impressed that you
handled the situation like a
professional I hope this video on how to
deal with a microphone like a
professional has been beneficial to you
if it has please consider subscribing to
my channel and check out this video
that's popping up on the screen right
now because I talk about five speaking
mistakes you absolutely want to avoid
and I know you're going to get a lot of
value from that video but thank you for
watching this one